Welcome to data visualization.
I'm Prishan, one of your instructors and
to introduce this week's topic
with me here is our other instructor,
Nikki, hi, Nikki.
>> Hi, Prishan, so
excited about this course.
>> The next few weeks are going
to be all about how we make data
come to life through visualization.
Nikki, what are your top tips for
an effective visualization?
Well, visualizations must present
data in an attractive way, but
they must also be easy to understand, put
the data into context, and tell a story.
We need them to educate,
reveal trends, and where possible,
be interactive and even animated.
>> And we're going to look at different
ways of achieving all these outcomes.
Now when we think of visualizations in
Excel, we immediately think of charts,
but these aren't our only options,
are they?
>> No, we actually have a lot of
other options which can work with or
even instead of charts.
This week,
we're not going to look at charts at all.
In fact, we're going to start by focusing
on a great visualization tool called
conditional formatting.
>> I understand conditional formatting
is where we change the formatting, say,
color of a cell or cells where
it meets a particular condition.
Can you give us some examples of why
we would use conditional formatting?
>> Well,
it can be used to show trends in our data.
We can identify anomalies like
duplicates or values that fall below or
above a certain threshold.
It can also be used interactively for
users to explore the data and
highlight values that meet
their specific criteria.
>> All sounding very useful.
Please tell me more about how we
can achieve this interactivity.
>> Well, there are a few
techniques we're going to explore.
We'll start with looking at how we create
our own custom conditional formats using
formulas, and then we're going to combine
that functionality with the use of
drop-down lists and macros.
>> Now, drop-down lists were covered
in the last course, but macros,
that's new, and quite a big topic.
>> Yes, if you want to start writing
code from scratch, it's a huge topic,
but we're going to use Excel's
built in macro recorder to
record us doing simple actions.
It will generate the code for us, and
then we can just run the macro
to replay those actions.
>> Will we get the opportunity
to look at the code?
>> Absolutely, we'll take a quick sneak
peek, and we'll even look at making
simple changes to the code and
duplicating it for similar procedures.
>> Well,
that's definitely going to be a highlight.
So really, no charts this week?
>> Well, not in the strict sense, but
we are going to look at sparklines,
which are miniature charts
that sit in a single cell, and
they allow us to quickly generate
multiple trend visualizations,
will also be including pictures and
shapes.
>> Are there a lot of uses for
shapes in Excel?
>> Actually, there are loads, shapes very
useful for labels, for framing data.
We're going to use them as macro buttons,
and they can even be linked to a cell, so
the value in that cell
appears in the shape.
>> The last topic we're going to cover
is quite unusual in this context,
custom number formats.
Can you please explain what these are?
>> Well Excel allows us to specify
how we want our numbers to look.
It provides us with built-in number
formats, like currency and percentage, but
if we want something other
than the built-in options,
we can create our own
custom number formats.
This might be something as simple
as wanting all the zeros to appear
as blank cells, or maybe even have
your dates show as just year.
But we can get quite creative and
include colors and symbols, and it's
a little bit like conditional formatting,
but actually, with more options.
>> I think that's going to be
new to quite a lot of people.
Now, there's a lot of
content we'll be covering.
Any tips for our learners on how to
retain all of this new knowledge?
>> Absolutely, so to support our learners,
we've included a quick reference
guide in the toolbox summarizing all
the topics we've covered this week.
But really,
the best way to remember is to practice.
So don't just watch the videos,
download the workbook and work along, and
then try and apply these skills
to your own context, and
it can be work or study or personal.
We're also really excited to see how
these skills are being applied, so
we've included a discussion forum
called creative corner, and
we're encouraging students to post
their visualizations there so
that they can inspire and
be inspired by each other.
>> Time to get stuck in.
We have five great videos this week
covering conditional formatting, macros,
sparklines, working with shapes and
images, and custom number formatting.
To get the most out of your learning,
make sure you download the workbooks and
work alongside the videos.
After each video, there's a practice quiz
where you can test your knowledge, and
at the end of the week, there's
an excellent practice challenge for
you to apply all
the skills you've learned.